{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red31\green31\blue31;\red255\green255\blue255;\red11\green89\blue168;
\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red41\green101\blue168;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c16471\c16471\c16471;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c43529\c71765;
\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c57919\c12801\c57269;\cssrgb\c20000\c47843\c71765;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{lower-alpha\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{lower-alpha\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid102\'01\'01;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{lower-alpha\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid103\'01\'02;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li2160\lin2160 }{\listlevel\levelnfc2\levelnfcn2\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{lower-roman\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid104\'01\'03;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li2880\lin2880 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{lower-alpha\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat3\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{lower-alpha\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\'00;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww15900\viewh9400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 Project Tycho \

\fs24 \

\f1\b Download Link
\f0\b0 \
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.tycho.pitt.edu/data/"}}{\fldrslt https://www.tycho.pitt.edu/data/}}
\f1\b \
\
Citation\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Willem G van Panhuis, Anne Cross, Donald S Burke, Project Tycho 2.0: a repository to improve the integration and reuse of data for global population health, Journal of the American Medical Informatics Association, Volume 25, Issue 12, December 2018, Pages 1608\'961617, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://doi.org/10.1093/jamia/ocy123"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 https://doi.org/10.1093/jamia/ocy123}}
\f1\b \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Licensing
\f0\b0 \
Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International Public License.\cf5 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf6 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Subject to the terms and conditions of this Public License, the Licensor hereby grants You a worldwide, royalty-free, non-sublicensable, non-exclusive, irrevocable license to exercise the Licensed Rights in the Licensed Material to:\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf6 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	a	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
reproduce and Share the Licensed Material, in whole or in part; and\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	b	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
produce, reproduce, and Share Adapted Material.\cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf6 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa200\partightenfactor0
\cf6 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Your exercise of the Licensed Rights is expressly made subject to the following conditions.\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sa200\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf6 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	a	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Attribution.\cb1 \
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\sa200\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl1\cf6 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	1	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
If You Share the Licensed Material (including in modified form), You must:\cb1 \
\pard\tx1660\tx2160\pardeftab720\li2160\fi-2160\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl2\cf6 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	a	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
retain the following if it is supplied by the Licensor with the Licensed Material:\cb1 \
\pard\tx2380\tx2880\pardeftab720\li2880\fi-2880\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl3\cf6 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	i	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
identification of the creator(s) of the Licensed Material and any others designated to receive attribution, in any reasonable manner requested by the Licensor (including by pseudonym if designated);\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl3\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	ii	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
a copyright notice;\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl3\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	iii	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
a notice that refers to this Public License;\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl3\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	iv	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
a notice that refers to the disclaimer of warranties;\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl3\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	v	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
a URI or hyperlink to the Licensed Material to the extent reasonably practicable;\cb1 \
\pard\tx1660\tx2160\pardeftab720\li2160\fi-2160\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl2\cf6 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	b	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
indicate if You modified the Licensed Material and retain an indication of any previous modifications; and\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl2\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	c	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
indicate the Licensed Material is licensed under this Public License, and include the text of, or the URI or hyperlink to, this Public License.\cb1 \
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl1\cf6 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	2	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
You may satisfy the conditions in Section 3(a)(1) in any reasonable manner based on the medium, means, and context in which You Share the Licensed Material. For example, it may be reasonable to satisfy the conditions by providing a URI or hyperlink to a resource that includes the required information.\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl1\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	3	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
If requested by the Licensor, You must remove any of the information required by Section 3(a)(1)(A) to the extent reasonably practicable.\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl1\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	4	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
If You Share Adapted Material You produce, the Adapter's License You apply must not prevent recipients of the Adapted Material from complying with this Public License.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf6 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa200\partightenfactor0
\cf6 Section 5 \'96 Disclaimer of Warranties and Limitation of Liability.\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf6 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	a	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Unless otherwise separately undertaken by the Licensor, to the extent possible, the Licensor offers the Licensed Material as-is and as-available, and makes no representations or warranties of any kind concerning the Licensed Material, whether express, implied, statutory, or other. This includes, without limitation, warranties of title, merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement, absence of latent or other defects, accuracy, or the presence or absence of errors, whether or not known or discoverable. Where disclaimers of warranties are not allowed in full or in part, this disclaimer may not apply to You.\cb1 \
\ls3\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	b	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
To the extent possible, in no event will the Licensor be liable to You on any legal theory (including, without limitation, negligence) or otherwise for any direct, special, indirect, incidental, consequential, punitive, exemplary, or other losses, costs, expenses, or damages arising out of this Public License or use of the Licensed Material, even if the Licensor has been advised of the possibility of such losses, costs, expenses, or damages. Where a limitation of liability is not allowed in full or in part, this limitation may not apply to You.\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl0\cf6 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	c	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The disclaimer of warranties and limitation of liability provided above shall be interpreted in a manner that, to the extent possible, most closely approximates an absolute disclaimer and waiver of all liability.\
}