{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Oblique;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red26\green26\blue26;\red0\green0\blue233;
\red13\green80\blue209;\red24\green26\blue30;\red0\green0\blue0;\red21\green78\blue155;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c13333\c13333\c13333;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c93333;
\cssrgb\c3529\c41176\c85490;\cssrgb\c12157\c13725\c15686;\csgray\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c9020\c38824\c67059;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww15900\viewh9400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 OpenDengue and NOAA Data\

\fs24 \

\f1\b \cf2 Download Link
\f0\b0 \
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://aido.bsvgateway.org/api/outbreaks/?format=api"}}{\fldrslt https://opendengue.org/data.html\
}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/OpenDengue/master-repo/tree/main/data/releases/V1.2.2"}}{\fldrslt https://github.com/OpenDengue/master-repo/tree/main/data/releases/V1.2.2}}
\f1\b \

\f0\b0 https://dengueforecasting.noaa.gov
\f1\b \
\
Citation\
\

\f0\b0 (OpenDengue)
\f1\b \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Clarke, J., Lim, A., Gupte, P. 
\f2\i et al.
\f0\i0  A global dataset of publicly available dengue case count data. 
\f2\i Sci Data
\f0\i0  
\f1\b 11
\f0\b0 , 296 (2024). https://doi.org/10.1038/s41597-024-03120-7\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \

\f0\b0 (San Juan)\cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Sharp TM, Hunsperger E, Santiago GA, Mu\'f1oz-Jordan JL, Santiago LM, Rivera A, et al. (2013) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://journals.plos.org/plosntds/article?id=10.1371/journal.pntd.0002159"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Virus-Specific Differences in Rates of Disease during the 2010 Dengue Epidemic in Puerto Rico.}} PLoS Negl Trop Dis 7(4): e2159. doi:10.1371/journal.pntd.0002159\

\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \

\f0\b0 (Iquitos)
\f1\b \

\f0\b0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Forshey BM, Guevara C, Laguna-Torres VA, Cespedes M, Vargas J, et al. (2010) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://journals.plos.org/plosntds/article?id=10.1371/journal.pntd.0000787"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Arboviral Etiologies of Acute Febrile Illnesses in Western South America, 2000-2007.}} PLoS Negl Trop Dis 4(8): e787. doi: 10.1371/journal.pntd.0000787 \
\
Stoddard ST, Wearing HJ, Reiner RC Jr, Morrison AC, Astete H, et al. (2014) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://journals.plos.org/plosntds/article?id=10.1371/journal.pntd.0003003"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Long-Term and Seasonal Dynamics of Dengue in Iquitos, Peru.}} PLoS Negl Trop Dis 8(7): e3003. doi: 10.1371/journal.pntd.0003003
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Licensing (OpenDengue)
\f0\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf6 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Publicly available on GitHub and could not find specific licensing information\
\

\f1\b Licensing (NOAA)
\f0\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa200\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb7 The information on National Weather Service (NWS) Web pages are in the public domain, unless specifically noted otherwise, and may be used without charge for any lawful purpose so long as you do not: 1) claim it is your own (e.g., by claiming copyright for NWS information -- see below), 2) use it in a manner that implies an endorsement or affiliation with NOAA/NWS, or 3) modify its content and then present it as official government material. You also cannot present information of your own in a way that makes it appear to be official government information.\
Use of the NWS name ("National Weather Service") and/or visual identifier are protected under trademark law and may not be used without permission from the NWS. Use of the NWS name and/ or visual identifier to identify unaltered NWS content or links to NWS web sites are allowable uses. Permission may be requested for this use at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.weather.gov/logorequest"}}{\fldrslt \cf8 \ul \ulc8 https://www.weather.gov/logorequest}}. Permission is not required to display unaltered NWS products which include the NWS name or NWS/NOAA visual identifier as part of the original product. Neither the name nor visual identifier may be used, however, in a manner that implies an endorsement or affiliation with NOAA/NWS.\
Before using information obtained from any NWS Web page special attention should be given to the date and time of the data and products being displayed.\
The user assumes the entire risk related to its use of information on NWS Web pages. NWS is provides such information "as is," and NWS disclaims any and all warranties, whether express or implied, including (without limitation) any implied warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. In no event will NWS be liable to you or to any third party for any direct, indirect, incidental, consequential, special or exemplary damages or lost profit resulting from any use or misuse of this data.\
As required by 17 U.S.C. \'a7 403, third parties producing copyrighted works consisting predominantly of the material appearing in NWS Web pages must provide notice with such work(s) identifying the NWS material incorporated and stating that such material is not subject to copyright protection.}