{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Oblique;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;\red26\green26\blue26;
\red38\green38\blue38;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgray\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c13333\c13333\c13333;
\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww15900\viewh9400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 FoodNet Data\

\fs24 \

\f1\b \cf2 Download Link
\f0\b0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://sites.tufts.edu/naumovalabs/analecta/"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 https://sites.tufts.edu/naumovalabs/analecta/}}
\f1\b \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://wwwn.cdc.gov/foodnetfast/"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 https://wwwn.cdc.gov/foodnetfast/}}\
\
\
\cb3 Citation\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Simpson, R.B., Zhou, B., Alarcon Falconi, T.M. 
\f2\i et al.
\f0\i0  An analecta of visualizations for foodborne illness trends and seasonality. 
\f2\i Sci Data
\f0\i0  
\f1\b 7
\f0\b0 , 346 (2020). https://doi.org/10.1038/s41597-020-00677-x
\f1\b \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Licensing 
\f0\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'a9\'a02024\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://sites.tufts.edu/naumovalabs"}}{\fldrslt InForMID}}\'a0\'96\'a0All rights reserved\
This website provides products derived from data available by the FoodNet program described here: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.cdc.gov/foodnet/about/index.html"}}{\fldrslt https://www.cdc.gov/foodnet/about/index.html}}\
I could not find any specifics regarding the data licenses from either FoodNet or the InForMID repository. These both appear to be truly open access with no other caveats. \
\

\f1\b Data Cleaning
\f0\b0 \
These data are reported monthly, and the \'93date\'94 assigned to each observation is in the following format: YEAR_MONTH. Time series were included only if there were at least 50 total case reports in the time series. We also required to have at least 10 months of data available per time series. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf5 \cb6 Date of Raw Data Access
\f0\b0 : \
6/12/2024}