# Code for Study in Publication "Phylogeny-based estimates of epidemic population substructure outperform time series approaches"

Code used to carry out the parameter estimation study. For questions, issues, or clarifications please reach out to Julie: jaspencer at lanl dot gov.

[case_projection.R](./case_projection.R) calls scripts [plot_single_projection.R](./plot_single_projection.R) and [LikTypesSTT.R](https://github.com/tanja819/TreePar/blob/master/R/LikTypesSTT.R), generates synthetic phylogenies and time series, fit time series models to training data and estimate parameters from the time series.

[plot_single_projection.R](./plot_single_projection.R) splits data into training/testing sets, defines structured and unstructured ODE models, projects model simulations, and calculates MAEs.

[phylo_estimate_parallel.R](./phylo_estimate_parallel.R) carries out parameter estimations from the phylogenies in parallel on a macOS.

[example.R](./example.R) is a demo script that generates one data set and takes it through all steps of the workflow.

## Software and Data Required
All data needed for this study is generated by the code in the AIM directory.

## Possible issues

You may encounter an error in `LikTypesSTT` (in the package **TreePar**) from a small bug on line 51 of the source file
[LikTypesSTT.R](https://github.com/tanja819/TreePar/blob/master/R/LikTypesSTT.R#L51).

The bug can be fixed in the following way:

```R
# OLD LINE 51
check <- ((length(which(partemp=="NaN"))>0)||(min(l,psi))<0 || m<0  || max(l,m,psi)>maxpar || (temp==0))

## MODIFIED LINE 51:
check <- ((length(which(partemp=="NaN"))>0)||(min(l,psi))<0 || all(m<0)  || max(l,m,psi)>maxpar || (temp==0))
```

The key part is the comparison `m < 0` which needs to return a scalar logical, thus we changed that to read `all(m < 0)`.

LikTypesSTT documentation may be found at https://rdrr.io/github/tanja819/TreePar/man/LikTypesSTT.html. The corresponding citation for TreePar is:

    T. Stadler, S. Bonhoeffer. Uncovering epidemiological dynamics in heterogeneous
    host populations using phylogenetic methods. Phil. Trans. Roy. Soc. B,
    368 (1614): 20120198, 2013.

## Citation
Spencer JA,  Goldberg EE, Alexander PC, Del Valle SY. (2025) Phylogeny-based estimates of epidemic population substructure outperform time series approaches. In Review.

## Release
This software has been approved for open source release and has been assigned **O4726**

## Copyright
© 2024. Triad National Security, LLC. All rights reserved. This program was produced under U.S. Government contract 89233218CNA000001 for Los Alamos National Laboratory (LANL), which is operated by Triad National Security, LLC for the U.S. Department of Energy/National Nuclear Security Administration. All rights in the program are reserved by Triad National Security, LLC, and the U.S. Department of Energy/National Nuclear Security Administration. The Government is granted for itself and others acting on its behalf a nonexclusive, paid-up, irrevocable worldwide license in this material to reproduce, prepare derivative works, distribute copies to the public, perform publicly and display publicly, and to permit others to do so.

## License
This code repository is distributed under the BSD-3 License: Copyright 2024. Triad National Security, LLC. Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
3. Neither the name of the copyright holder nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS “AS IS” AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
