{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Oblique;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red71\green80\blue91;\red13\green80\blue209;
\red24\green26\blue30;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c34902\c38824\c43137;\cssrgb\c3529\c41176\c85490;
\cssrgb\c12157\c13725\c15686;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww15900\viewh9400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 Johns Hopkins CSSEGIS and Our World in Data COVID-19 Data\

\fs24 \

\f1\b \cf2 Download Link
\f0\b0 \cf2 \
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/CSSEGISandData/COVID-19_Unified-Dataset"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 https://github.com/CSSEGISandData/COVID-19_Unified-Dataset}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.tycho.pitt.edu/data/"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \
}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/owid/covid-19-data/tree/master/public/data"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 https://github.com/owid/covid-19-data/tree/master/public/data}} 
\f1\b \cf2 \
\
Citation\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Badr, H.S., Zaitchik, B.F., Kerr, G.H. et al. Unified real-time environmental-epidemiological data for multiscale modeling of the COVID-19 pandemic. 
\f2\i Sci Data
\f0\i0  
\f1\b 10
\f0\b0 , 367 (2023). {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://doi.org/10.1038/s41597-023-02276-y"}}{\fldrslt \ul \ulc4 https://doi.org/10.1038/s41597-023-02276-y}}\ul \ulc4 \
\
\ulnone Edouard Mathieu, Hannah Ritchie, Lucas Rod\\u00e9s-Guirao, Cameron Appel, Charlie Giattino, Joe Hasell, Bobbie Macdonald, Saloni Dattani, Diana Beltekian, Esteban Ortiz-Ospina and Max Roser (2020) - "Coronavirus Pandemic (COVID-19)". Published online at OurWorldInData.org. Retrieved from: 'https://ourworldindata.org/coronavirus'\ul \

\f1\b \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \ulnone \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Licensing (CSSEGIS)
\f0\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf5 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320\partightenfactor0
\cf5 \cb6 Copyright (c) 2023 Johns Hopkins University (JHU)\cb1 \
\cb6 Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:\cb1 \
\cb6 The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf5 \cb6 THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.\
\

\f1\b Licensing (OWID)\

\f0\b0 CC BY 4.0\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa320\partightenfactor0
\cf5 All visualizations, data, and code produced by 
\f2\i \cf5 Our World in Data
\f0\i0 \cf5  are completely open access under the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Creative Commons BY license}}. You have the permission to use, distribute, and reproduce these in any medium, provided the source and authors are credited.\cf3 \cb1 \
\cf5 \cb6 The data produced by third parties and made available by 
\f2\i \cf5 Our World in Data
\f0\i0 \cf5  is subject to the license terms from the original third-party authors. We will always indicate the original source of the data in our database, and you should always check the license of any such third-party data before use.\
}